What are the problems that
Agile is looking to solve?
What we need to know is how to find
a solution.
What does this methodology consist of?
It is also important to know in what
areas within the company it will
help us.
The best way to understand
it is to see it as a
toolbox.
It is a toolbox where you have
tools of different types that
will then serve you to solve
these big problems
at the company level.
And in the end it is a kind
of mindset, a mentality,
a philosophy with which I
serve as tools to solve these
big problems.
On the one hand, to be more adaptive and
on the other hand, to keep my talent motivated.
So, in this toolbox,
what students have to know
is that many have been
developed.
And some...
Lean Startup is one of them, but
Scrum, Kanban are words that
can sound.
It is continuous, because it is a
philosophy that starts from a series
of values that are very easy to understand,
by the way, of adaptability.
There are a number of things we will
see and there are a lot of tools in it.
And tools help you to do
concrete things, like in
a toolbox.
You take the sturdy to sturge
or whatever, and the drill
to make holes in the wall.
This is a bit similar.
Now I would like to analyze what
areas within the company Yael
helps us in and how the traditional
approach versus the Yael
approach is.
Of all this toolbox, in order
to use them, they can be divided
into three large lines.
The first one has to do with the
strategy and is where your company
will move and at what point
it has to do with the time to
market.
I give you a very concrete example.
Imagine you have a business idea
and instead of the traditional
model you talked about before ships
versus such, you want to explore
whether that business model is
actually profitable or not.
There are many tools that you can
use, such as Lean Startup, Design
Sik, etc.
They help you validate whether that business
model is realistic or not, and
you pass early.
As a first benefit, it also
helps you minimize your
costs, increase your return
on investment and also meet
your time to market.
It is to come at the opportunity,
at the right time, in the right place.
There are tools such as Design
Thinking and Lean Startup that
make us a tool to help
define the company’s strategy.
What helps us is to be closer
to our customers.
I think, and well, that, and
Lean Startup we all know.
Then you don’t stay there because
in addition to knowing the
strategy, where you’re going to
go and talk to your client,
you’ll have to somehow implement
it, carry it out.
This part of operational, project
management, are also another series
of tools that are within that
same box, which will help us
then once the strategy is seen,
how we will carry it out,
how you organize the talent,
how we will deliver the product,
how close it will be to the
customer, how I will incorporate
your feedback within my
product, always to be
sure that what I am
doing has a value.
It helps us manage projects.
Yes, in full.
What are the tools that
help us?
The most famous for managing projects
are Scrum, which is the say for
excellence, which has to do more
with the operational part of the
project.
There is Kanban, which besides
projects also has the part of
operations.
And there are other a little more techniques
such as XP, Stream Programming,
etc.
But they all have a very common goal
and it’s a bit of Yael’s philosophy,
which is to bring value to the customer.
And for that, he will be very close to
him.
And all the tools that are in the box,
you will see Borja, which will
always have in common proximity
with the customer.
That is indisputable.
And last but not least,
because you can have a great
strategy, you can have a good
project methodology,
it is to have a proper
talent.
To have the right talent means
to recruit the right people
and to keep them.
We’ve seen before that it’s
a problem to keep talent.
Yael also has a series
of tools inside that box
that will help us to
get talent to my company,
develop within it and
help me the goals within
my strategic plan.
And not in vain, if you confirm everything
that has been collected from Yael
studies as many years after its
use, they all go in that direction.
Time to market has been drastically
reduced.
Businesses are now much more
able to be close to customers
and the answers that are
really what they need.
And many of them have managed
to keep talent and reduce rotation
considerably.
The number of people who leave
is much smaller.
And that’s why it’s a philosophy that
will help you in your company to
get ahead with those big problems.
Strategy, being a more adaptable
company, such as Line Startup, for
example, at a very strategic level
help us these tools, Line
Startup, Design Thinking.
At a more operational, more tactical
level, in the management of
the different projects we have
within the company or in the operations.
There are also tools, for example,
such as talks of Scram, which we
will see, or like Kanban, which helps
us to be more flexible above all.
All these tools also contribute
to talent management.
It is a different approach to talent
management where we mainly support
ourselves in empowering people,
etc.
First think of me, for example, the
case that is never referenced in
Spain international, which is the BBVA.
Think of the three lines we have
commented on and think of what
they have taken out the toolbox.
If you see BBVA’s strategy, it’
s a digital strategy closer
to the user and they’re working
on it with small self-organized
teams that make product
constantly.
In fact, you go to an app like
BBVA on your mobile, see the
versions every day and see
that they are constantly changing.
These policies have been made,
not only to make strategic
planning a year, but I do
it a quarter or a half-year,
that of having small teams
working close to the customer,
having their need and constantly
adapting.
And those new policies that empower
people, where there is no longer
a boss, who is the only one who
commands within the project, but
that everyone is self-coordinated,
everyone is self-managed,
are the features that make a
company in allay and that are
currently reporting large profits.